Please return this copy to Army Services
Technical Information Center, Dayton, Ohio.
So presumably this is where a lot of the Air Force
documents. They were in Dayton, Ohio, the
not-building Dayton, Ohio. Were accumulated at
one time or another, but then this goes back where
they are now. It's hard to say. Okay. Now, the next
few questions I wanted to ask you to close off the
technical oil mission part. I have to do with
questions other people should like for an answer
on, if it's possible. If you were going to begin to
catalog the documents, that is to abstract them
and to index them and place them on a computer,
would you begin with the technical oil mission
documents first?
Well, are you considering all the technology in
synthetic fuels or just the technical emissions?
All synthetic fuels,
I think. There are literally tons of documents. I
know. And ERDA itself has published, I suspect,
wagon loads of material. And how to ever get that
indexed into a...
into something and somebody could quickly find
what he wanted. I have no idea how you do that. Well,
I think they're considering only documents
coming out of Germany, not things done since
Germany. That would... Of
course, there's a lot of a lot of published
literature out of Germany. Actually, since the
war, the Germans have done almost nothing on
collagenation or the fission process or
synthetic fuels generally, because they have
been using oil
that they imported mostly.
So in effect, it seems to me that If you could
confine your indexing to the technical oil
mission documents, well, this might be a possible
approach to it, but to consider a broader area
would mean an awful lot of literature had to be
considered. from IRDA and from the Bureau of Mines
and from the Office of Coal Research and from the
universities and everybody else. Because
there's been work going on all over the United
States in particular and in a number of other
countries as well. OK. Well, from the documents
brought back to Germany, then. From Germany. From
Germany. The war documents, really, for lack of a
better word, the documents that we selected in
Germany and shipped back to this country and to
England, if those were going to be indexed and
cataloged, should they begin the technical oil
mission? Or should they begin exploring other
archives?
Of course, there was a lot of work in Germany. done,
well, practically all the work was done for the
technical oil mission. So I would, I guess you
really ought to consider all the work that was done
in the 1920 to 1940 period, which was published in
Germany, and then add to that all the work that was
brought back for the technical oil mission.
And let me
think just
a minute. It's really a field that I don't consider
myself very well qualified in this business index
and documents. But
the Bureau of Mining, you know, has published
Indices of patents and...
Yeah, this is the... You got that? Yeah, this is the
index of the microfilm reels of technical oil
emissions.
It's not synthetic fuel, but it's part of the
synthetic fuel.
Well, I think what's being considered is to go
through the German documents and abstract the
information and place it on a computer. Should
they begin with technical oil emission
documents, or should they begin with other
documents?
Now, there's an index like that, I think it's a
little bit bigger, on collagenation patents,
too. I'm sure I got it someplace here in the book, in
case I can't...
I think there's some 3,000 patents in there. Just
on? Cohonogenation. Cohonogenation. Up to 1950,
I believe. I don't know when that thing was
published.
In three parts. 1951. I don't believe I've got the
other two parts. I'm very sorry.
But...
I have read this book. It's a series of abstracts.
It's just a little piece here. I think I've read
every patent in there. And you see here I've made
whole notes on the whole thing, trying to anchor
into my mind what the previous technology was.
I don't remember exactly how this is divided up,
but I'm sure there's some classification in here,
patents. I guess it's just, maybe it's
chronologically, I don't know, or patent number
or something
like that. I don't know how to do that, John, that
you're talking about.
We've, the Bureau of Mine says, as you see it, made
attempts at certain sections of it.
But I don't think,
I don't know as if,
I don't know whether you can improve on what's
already been done or whether you can't.
I'm sure you can put all that in a computer so maybe
you can index it in some way so you can call up what
you want with less trouble and this, but I really
don't know how to do that. Yeah, I think they're
talking about making a box by box and item by item
search of all the German documents brought over
and abstracting those.
Well, good luck to you.
Well, assuming that's what they're going to do,
should they begin with the TOM documents? Should
they begin out random? I'm talking really just in
terms of personal opinion. I really realize that
you don't have any. Well, the TOM documents only
cover a small segment of the coal, hydrogenation,
and fission droppers technology. That's the
trouble. It does, huh? Yeah.
And the others are found outside of Germany? Some
of them may be found in Germany and many of them
outside of Germany. I see. They're all over the
world, the United States, England, everywhere.
You bet. Okay. Now, have some of the documents been
in effect lost or destroyed since they've been
stored here, as far as you know? In other words, are
there sizable blocks or documents missing
anyplace? Well, to my knowledge,
I don't really know, but I don't know where they
were stored in the first place. I only have the
vaguest idea of where they were stored. And this is
a hearsay story that you can maybe check out on, but
we did... a lot of work in Louisiana, Missouri, as
you know, and recorded it in the annual reports.
But the annual reports are not very detailed
reports. And a lot of the detailed data that we got
from Louisiana, Missouri, was supposedly stored
at Pittsburgh. Well, later on, it was moved from
Pittsburgh to Morgantown, West Virginia. And
then IRDA authorized a restudy of that Louisiana,
Missouri data. And they authorized Floor to
restudy that data plus some other data from the
Office of Coal Research and various other places.
And the Floor people told me that they went down to
Morgantown and the documents from Louisiana,
Missouri had all been destroyed shortly before
they got there as it happened. So that's the only
thing I know of officially that's been lost and
destroyed. But I don't know what happened to all
the files that the Department of Commerce had
either, except I guess you said they were
microfilmed. Yeah, they're supposed to have been
microfilmed. According to these charts I went
through, they're supposed to have been
microfilmed and sent out. And allegedly, Private
Enterprise could check this index and call for
something they wanted. I presume that's what the
index was for. Well, it seems to me I have some vague
recollection that they did try to preserve this on
microfilm so people could get it if they wanted it
at some future date. But whether it was actually
done or not, I don't know. And presumably that you
could read through the indexes. And if something
interested you, they're supposed to be able to
call those out for you to go through some kind of
report.
I don't know. Technical oil mission, though, now,
it's really much more concerned with other things
than petroleum, is it not? Well, the technical oil
mission, if you consider TOM directly, we were
really confined all our efforts to synthetic
fuel. I got a damn Greek I'm supposed to talk to
about a report, I think. Well, you know, frankly,
the problem I have is I don't know what documents
have been looked at and what documents haven't
been looked at and where they're stored and what
they are and whether they're duplicate or not
duplicate documents. And so your problem is
unless you know them.
After you leave the bureau... You know, I sort of
wonder...
Did you talk to Ernie to see if they've made any
surveys of the previous legislature? No. Well,
they've hired an awful lot of people to do an awful
lot of studying. And I wonder if they might not be a
good place to start.
We did a lot of work at the Bureau of Mines on
surveying the earth literature, as you see here.
But that work was pretty well wound up in the early
50s, and it ought to be carried forward beyond the
time the Bureau of Mines has carried it forward.
Now, it's possible the Office of Coal Research has
done some. You know, I think another group you
ought to talk to is Ephraim.
I don't know how much studying, I don't know how
much reviewing they've done of literature out
there. But I think Erda's really a better group to
start with.
You leave the Bureau of Mines in 1952. I inferred
from your interview you left it because you felt
like they would do nothing else with synthetic
fuels. Is that correct?
Yeah, I wouldn't say that they would do nothing
with synthetic fuels, but I felt that the interest
in synthetic fuels had gone downhill at a very
large rate because of oil in the Middle East.
uh... tend to lose track of synthetic fuels? I
don't... that's not... that's not... Well...
From 53 to 62, you don't seem to be very active in
synthetic fuels. Is that fair? Except at that work
I did at Spencer Chemical Company in El Paso, a
natural gas company. Okay. And then from 60, uh...
I took out those patents in the early 60s. And from
60 to 68, I did very little in synthetic fuels
because I was working then on, uh... Actually, I
was very much more busy with my consulting work,
and I was working on building ammonia plants and
things of that nature. So there was a period of
about seven years in there, which I did relatively
little in synthetic oil. And then when the Arab,
well, before the Arab scare came up, the Academy of
Engineers started to review, again,
gasification processes and so forth. And I
started to work with them, and that aroused my
interest again. And that's how you come back to it.
Yeah. That started about 1967, 68.
And I'll tell you another thing that brought me
back to it was the Union Pacific asked me to take a
look at the possibility of coal mining on the Union
Pacific Railroad. And this was about the time we
got into our environmental problems with the
power plants and so on and so forth. And that work
for the Union Pacific brought me back into
synthetic fuels. And I take it that presently at
least you're not optimistic about synthetic
fuels solving the nation's oil crises.
I wouldn't say that I'm optimistic. I said you're
not optimistic. I'm not optimistic. I believe
that if we can get a substantial improvement in
existing processes by hydrogenating coal
directly with hydrogen gas that we got a chance of
helping ourselves greatly on our oil supply
century. Does that sum it up for you? Mm-hmm. Sure
does.